RST-formatted man page for file-token-provider. (#35)
edgexfoundry/edgex-docs: security/token-file-provider.1.rst

NAME
====
token-file-provider – Generate Vault tokens for EdgeX services

SYNOPSIS
========
token-file-provider [-h|-help] [-confdir confdir]

DESCRIPTION
===========
token-file-provider generates per-service Vault tokens for EdgeX services
so that they can make authenticated connections to Vault to retrieve
application secrets.
token-file-provider implements a generic secret seeding mechanism based
on pre-created files and is designed for maximum portability.
token-file-provider takes a configuration file that specifies the services
for which tokens shall be generated and the Vault access policy
that shall be applied to those tokens.
token-file-provider assumes that there is some underlying protection mechanism
that will be used to prevent EdgeX services from reading each other’s tokens.

OPTIONS
=======
  \-h
    Display help text

  \-help
    Display help text

>   \-confdir confdir

Reviewer: I think we should follow the rest of EdgeX convention for this and have the following set of options that together control the location of the configuration.toml:

- `-c` 
- `-confdir`
- `-p`
- `-profile`

Author: The usages in `edgex-go/internal/pkg/usage/usage.go` are a little inconsistent.  Asking for double-confirmation that this is the right list.

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/35/commits/bd99b6ff553c24070f5265d0c5914089d399ff3f

    Look in this directory for configuration.toml instead.

FILES
=====

configuration.toml
------------------
This file specifies the TCP/IP location of the Vault service
and parameters used for Vault token generation.

::

  [SecretService]
  Server = "localhost"
  Port = 8200 

  [TokenFileProvider]
  PrivilegedTokenPath = /run/edgex/secrets/token-file-provider/vault-token.json
  ConfigFile = token-config.json
  OutputDir = /run/edgex/secrets/
  OutputFilename = vault-token.json

vault-token.json
----------------
This file contains a token use to authenticate to Vault.

::

  {
    "auth": {
      "client_token": "s.wOrq9dO9kzOcuvB06CMviJhZ"
    }
  }

token-config.json
-----------------
This configuration file tells token-file-provider which tokens to generate.

::

>   {

Reviewer: this file isn't exactly a Vault policy file is it? If it's not, this should be specified in the docs and a pointer to the upstream vault policy JSON format should be included for further reading.

    "service-name": {
      "edgex-use-defaults": true,
      "custom_policy": [
        {
          "path": {
            "secret/edgex/pki/tls/edgex-kong": {
              "capabilities": [ "list", "read" ]
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "custom_token_parameters": { }
    }
  }

When edgex-use-default is true (the default),

> the following is appended to the policy array for the generated token:

Reviewer: should this say 

```suggestion
the following is appended to the policy's `capabilities` array for the generated token:
```
?

Author: https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/35/commits/bd99b6ff553c24070f5265d0c5914089d399ff3f

so that they can make authenticated connections to Vault to retrieve
application secrets.
token-file-provider implements a generic secret seeding mechanism based
on pre-created files and is designed for maximum portability.
token-file-provider takes a configuration file that specifies the services
for which tokens shall be generated and the Vault access policy
that shall be applied to those tokens.
token-file-provider assumes that there is some underlying protection mechanism
that will be used to prevent EdgeX services from reading each other’s tokens.

OPTIONS
=======
  \-h, \--help
    Display help text

  \-c, \--confdir <confdir>
    Look in this directory for configuration.toml instead.

  \-p, \--profile <name>
    Indicate configuration profile other than default

FILES
=====

configuration.toml
------------------
This file specifies the TCP/IP location of the Vault service
and parameters used for Vault token generation.

::

  [SecretService]
  Server = "localhost"
  Port = 8200 

  [TokenFileProvider]
  PrivilegedTokenPath = /run/edgex/secrets/token-file-provider/vault-token.json
  ConfigFile = token-config.json
  OutputDir = /run/edgex/secrets/

>   OutputFilename = vault-token.json

Reviewer 2: the PrivilegedTokenPath contains the OutputFilename, and OutputDir
guess "token-file-provider" is the specific implementation.
Just curious if we need OutputDir and OutputFilename.

Author: We can hard-code `OutputFilename` if you wish.

Reviewer: Can't we just have one key with the directory and the filename?

Author: Each service gets their own token -- you mean like `/dir/%s/vault-token.json` ?

Reviewer: ah I missed the actual purpose of this, I suppose that's intended to happen when just reviewing docs for code that hasn't been written yet.
So really what `OutputDir` and `OutputFilename` does is generate a list of files matching the pattern `$OutputDir/$ServiceName/$OutputFileName`. I think having these separate config options is fine, but when this is implemented in code, let's revisit what to call these options because as written it's not clear how these things interact.

vault-token.json
----------------

> This file contains a token use to authenticate to Vault.

Reviewer 2: s/use/used

Author: Fixed.

::

  {
    "auth": {
      "client_token": "s.wOrq9dO9kzOcuvB06CMviJhZ"
    }
  }

token-config.json
-----------------
This configuration file tells token-file-provider which tokens to generate.

In order to avoid a directory full of `.hcl` files,
this configuration file uses the JSON serialization of HCL,
documented at https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/blob/master/README.md.

::

  {
    "service-name": {
      "edgex-use-defaults": true,
      "custom_policy": [
        {
          "path": {

>             "secret/edgex/pki/tls/edgex-kong": {

Reviewer 2: s/kong/security-proxy ?

Author: Actually, this is where it was in Edinburgh.

Reviewer: we can break Edinburgh changes so let's make it generic for Fuji

Author: Ideally we won't have a special place for it, so how about, as an example, `secret/non/standard/location`?

Author: Applied above fix.

              "capabilities": [ "list", "read" ]
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "custom_token_parameters": { }
    }
  }

When edgex-use-default is true (the default),
the following is added to the policy specification
for the auto-generated policy.
Thus, the final policy created for the token will be the union
of the policy below (if using the default policy)
plus the ``custom_policy`` defined above.

::

  {
    "path": {
      "secret/edgex/service-name/*": {
        "capabilities": [ "create", "update", "delete", "list", "read" ]
      }
    }
  }

When edgex-use-default is true (the default),
the following is inserted (if not overridden) to the token parameters for the generated token.
(See https://www.vaultproject.io/api/auth/token/index.html#create-token.)

::

  "display_name": service-name
  "no_parent":    true

>   "policies":     [ "edgex-service-service-name" ]

Reviewer 2: typo service-service?
or "edgeX-service-<service-name>" or "edgeX-service-<XYZ"
where XYZ = service-name

Author: Not a typo.  edgex-sevice-XYZ where XYZ=service-name.

Author: The policy for the token generating service has a rule in it that specifies the allowed policy names that it can mess with (so that, for example, it can't muck with the default policy).  `edgex-service-*` sounded like a good prefix.

Author: Clarified in docs.

Note that ``display_name`` may be used by ``go-mod-secrets``
as a hint for locating service secrets.

{OutputDir}/{service-name}/{OutputFilename}
-------------------------------------------

> For example: ``/run/edgex/secrets/edgex-kong/vault-token.json``

Reviewer 2: do we want this to be "kong" or "security-proxy"?

Reviewer: I think it should be `security-proxy` or even just `proxy-token.json` to keep it generically named

Author: Actually, I think the real name of the only secret consuming service today is `edgex-security-proxy-setup` so it would be `/run/edgex/secrets/edgex-security-proxy-setup/vault-token.json`.

Author: Fixed.

For each "service-name" in ``{ConfigFile}``,
a matching directory is created under ``{OutputDir}``

> and the corresponding Vault token in stored as ``{OutputFilename}``.

Reviewer 2: s/in/is

Author: Fixed.
